Does using the edits app from Instagram
help you get more views on your reels?
That is probably the number one question
I've been getting over the last few
weeks. And while I have my own
hypothesis, I wanted to figure out the
truth. And so I did what we always do
here at this podcast, Build Your Tribe,
and in our business, the Insta Club,
which is I looked for the data. I did a
study. I pulled the numbers. I did some
calculations, and I got an answer. And
so the purpose of today's episode is to
outline the study that I did and share
my conclusions with
you. But first, let me get you up to
speed as to what the heck we're even
talking about. Earlier this year,
actually the exact day that Tik Tok and
Cap Cut were unavailable in the US,
Instagram announced that they were
coming out with their own editing app
called Edits. It doesn't take being a
crazy conspiracy theorist to figure out
why Instagram decided to announce their
editing app on the same day that
probably the number one social media
editing app was unavailable. But I
digress. That's not the purpose of
today's episode. Regardless of the
reasoning behind it, that was the day
that Instagram announced Edits. And then
on April 22nd, 2025, Instagram
officially rolled out this new app. Now,
in case you haven't downloaded it or
checked it out yet, Edits is a very
simple editor. It is built to help you
make Instagram reels and that's about
it. You're not going to be editing any
long- form content, any horizontal
content, any content for YouTube, or any
really complex edits within the edits
app. It was an app that was
intentionally and explicitly designed to
be simple and to be userfriendly. Now,
with that being said, I don't think it's
necessarily the best editing app. It's
not the one that I prefer. I know they
do have some features planned for the
next few months that are going to really
improve the app and improve the editing
capabilities of it, but for now I will
say for the majority of my short form
content, I prefer to edit on Cap Cut.
Like I said, April 22nd was the day that
edits officially became available
worldwide and almost immediately there
began the rumor mill. And the rumor mill
of course was that if you use the edits
app, you will get more views on
Instagram. There's this very tried
andrue school of thought which is when a
social media app specifically a meta
social media app like Facebook or
Instagram or threads releases a new
feature they give preferential treatment
to people who use the feature or they
give extra views or extra reach to
people who are actively using that new
feature or that entirely new app. But in
addition to those rumors that were being
immediately spread by other social media
coaches, there were also reports
immediately coming in from people who
had made their first reel using the
edits app and saw that they were getting
a lot of views. And so people were
suddenly like, "Wait, is this actually
the gold mine? Is this actually the
secret sauce to getting more views on
Instagram in 2025?" Additionally, people
very quickly noticed that if you created
and posted a reel directly from the
edits app, there would be a little
button or a little badge in the bottom
left corner above your username. And it
doesn't take a rocket scientist or a
social media expert to figure out, hey,
if your reel has a big glowing made with
edits label on it, that's going to grab
people's attention and that might result
in more engagement or more views. And
then finally, a few days later, people
started to realize that if you were
viewing your notifications page, a lot
of people were getting notifications
that people they follow had posted a
reel using the edits app. And that
notification included a link to take
them directly to the reel. It was kind
of like free advertising that, hey, I
just posted a new reel in my followers
notifications. And so all of this made
me question my original hypothesis. And
my original hypothesis was that using
the edits app would not get you more
views. I believed this because this is
what Adam Moseri has directly said
himself. This is what he said in the
interview that I did with him here on
this podcast just a few weeks ago, which
I will not stop talking about because
it's like the coolest flipping thing
ever. If you haven't watched it yet, do
yourself a favor and go check that out.
I literally had a 1-hour sitdown
conversation with the head of Instagram
on this podcast just a few weeks ago. So
go back and check that out. but I'll
link it up in the show notes as well so
that you can check that out if you
haven't already. But that was something
he said in the interview. That is also
something that he has said numerous
times on his own Instagram on his own
Instagram stories. He has explicitly
stated, "No, you will not get more views
automatically just because you are using
the edits app." And so when the edits
app rolled out, that was my belief. That
was my stance. That was the statement
that I made. I literally posted reels
myself telling people, "No, you're not
going to get more views." But then the
reports started coming in. The rumors
started flying around. The news about
the notification and the badge started
appealing and it made me question, will
you actually get more views if you use
the edits app? And so I decided to do a
study. I do want to give a shout out to
my friend Abigail Pew, who she is
awesome herself on Instagram. Definitely
give her a follow. We'll link up her
Instagram down in the show notes. She
helped me with this study. Her and I
were brainstorming and talking about it
back and forth and she actually had a
post that did really well that she
edited in the edits app and her saying
that she had such a great experience
kind of added extra motivation for me
wanting to do this study. She also
posted a story encouraging people to get
involved with my study which was very
helpful. So, thank you Abby. But
anyways, how did I actually do this
study? I posted a series of posts and
Instagram stories inviting people to
basically selfapply and volunteer to be
a part of the study. And basically the
only qualifications to be in the study
is you had to have a public Instagram
account so that we could look at your
views and your data. And number two, you
had to be someone who used the edits
app. From there, we had over 200 people
apply, which by the way, if you were one
of these 200 people who volunteered to
be a part of the study, thank you so
much. You are awesome. And this podcast
episode would literally not be possible
if it wasn't for you. If you were one of
those volunteers, then you know what I'm
about to say. But what I originally had
the volunteers doing was submitting how
many views their reels received when
they edited using the edits app. That
ended up being somewhat problematic for
a few reasons. Number one, some people
made typos. Some people pressed enter or
submit before they were finished typing
in their number. Some people were
submitting reels that didn't quite meet
the criteria that we later decided were
more important. And so, long story
short, what we eventually ended up doing
is taking the long list of people who
had volunteered and manually inputting
the data ourselves rather than relying
on their self-submissions. And I do
think that this ultimately made the data
more accurate and more refined um and
more precise. So, like I said, what we
did, and when I say we, I mean me and
the Insta Club hub team who helps me out
with this. What we did is we went to the
profiles of every single person who
volunteered to be a part of this study,
and we scrolled through their recent
reels, and we basically input into the
spreadsheet how many views they received
on all of their reels that they had made
in the edits app, up to 10 reels. We
didn't find anyone who had done more
than 10 reels using the edits app. So,
we looked at at least one, but up to 10
reels that they had made using the edits
app. And we also tracked and logged how
many views they got on their 10 most
recent reels that were not made using
the edits app. Now, originally, I
thought this data collection would be
impossible because there are no
automated tools or services that
currently can tell whether a reel was
made using the edits app or not.
Basically, the only way to tell is if
that little badge is applied to the
reel. If that little icon that says made
in edits or made with edits is on the
reel, that's the only real way of
knowing currently. And so, it was a very
painstaking process. It was possible.
Uh, but it took about a week or two for
me and my team to sift through all of
this content and write down and note and
track everything. So, like I said, for
every single person, we tracked up to 10
reels made using the edits app and 10
reels made not using the edits app. And
we excluded, we did include some
exclusions because I felt like they
would really skew the data. We excluded
any posts that were collab posts
because, of course, collab posts just
operate differently. Collab posts are
literally shown to your audience and the
person you're collaborating with. So,
that wouldn't really be a fair apples to
apples comparison. That would be like
apples to oranges. We also excluded any
reels that were posted within the last
48 hours of our time of checking the
person's profile. Basically, we decided
that if it was two days or more since
you had posted that reel, it had gotten
the majority of its views. Now, don't
worry. In a second, I'm going to talk
about some issues and some problems
within this study. But essentially, we
figured, hey, if it's been 48 hours,
that reel has gotten most of its views
or it's at least gotten enough views for
us to have a good idea, a good
indication of its performance. So, all
this to say, we collected data on over
460 reels that were edited using the
edits app and over 2,000 reels that were
made not using the edits app, which to
me is a big enough sample size to draw
some conclusions. And obviously, that's
what we're getting at here. That's what
the point of today's episode is. But I
admit that there are some problems with
this study. It is in no way perfect. One
of the problems is, of course, we don't
have a massive sample size. I think that
unfortunately without an automated tool,
without uh some sort of technology to do
this for us, the realisticness, the the
uh plausibility of doing a study that
includes 200,000 profiles and a million
reels that were posted using the edits
app is just not possible. So again, the
sample size is not exactly massive,
although I would argue that it's good
enough to get a good indication as to
where things are at. Number two, a
definite problem is that views can
change over time. It is totally possible
that someone's reel that they made using
the edits app has gone viral since we
saw it. Maybe we saw it a week or two
weeks after it was posted and since then
the views have tripled. That's totally
possible and we would have no way of
knowing. So that is something that could
have affected the outcome of this study.
And then number three, of course, there
are mistakes that are made. There is
user input error. Just like we
originally were planning on having the
people submit how many views they got on
their reel and they could have made a
mistake. us and our data analysts could
have made a mistake as we were inputting
the reels ourselves. Of course, we tried
to do everything in our power to check
each other and to make sure that we were
going through um everyone's profile at
least twice to make sure that the
numbers were accurate. Um and we did try
to update the numbers as frequently as
possible. So, just because we wrote
someone's views down on one day doesn't
mean that it stayed that way. We would
continue to check on their views while
the study was ongoing. But, of course,
things get messed up. There is human
error and there are typos that are made.
But these are the types of studies that
we use to determine the strategies that
we teach in the Insta Club. That's why
our members get results. That's why last
year our average engaged Insta Club
member grew by
15,947 followers. Almost 16,000
followers just for being an engaged
member. Those are the kinds of results
that we get for our 5,000 plus members.
And we are committed. I am committed as
the leader of the Insta Club hub to
sharing factual evidence-based
strategies because yes, there are
flashes in the pan and yes, there are
exceptions to every rule, but if we can
give you the things that are proven to
work for most people, then you are more
likely to get results in a shorter
amount of time. The ultimate goal that I
have for the Insta Club hub is to get
people the results they're looking for.
whether that's new followers, more
business, more sales, more customers in
the shortest amount of time possible.
And one of the ways we do that is we
have someone who basically is a doctor
of Instagram on our team. This is
someone who I didn't know this was a
real thing when she first applied, but
we were looking for someone to help us
with this research and someone who
really had a background in data analysis
to help us uh keep a breast of trends
and and figure out strategies and do
these sorts of studies with us. And we
literally now have someone on our staff
who has her PhD in strategic
communication and she did her
dissertation research on Instagram. So
basically, she's a doctor of Instagram.
But enough about the club. I'll stop
talking about it. I will link up a $7
twoe trial that we have down in the show
notes below the episode so you can get a
taste of the club and see what things
are like in there and see what kind of
results we are getting for people and
how we're getting those results. But I'm
just so flipping proud of our team and
so thankful for them and the geniuses,
the super smart people on our team who
help keep the business afloat and help
do these really, really cool studies so
that we can give you the actual facts,
the actual data. And that's what we're
committed to in the Insta Club. That's
what we're committed to at Build Your
Tribe. That's what I'm committed to on
my Instagram is giving you the facts.
Not my opinion, not what I think, not
what I hope, but the actual tried and
trueue tested facts. And so, with all
that said, the results of the study,
what did we conclude? Looking at all the
numbers, there was no significant
difference between reels that were
posted using the edits app and reels
that were posted not using the edits
app. In fact, when you average out all
of the views on all of the reels, both
for the edits app and people who did not
use the edits app, the difference in
views was less than 1%. 0.4% was the
average difference in views. So,
basically no difference. And that was
when we included the VFM data, which VFM
stands for viral for me. And
essentially, that is a term that I often
use here at Build Your Tribe that means
a reel that far outperformed your
average reel. Sure, it might not have
gotten 10 million views, but it was
viral for you. It was a big moment for
you. It far outperformed what your reels
normally do. And we looked at what the
numbers look like when we excluded those
sorts of numbers because there were
definitely people who had some reels
that were edited in the edits app that
went viral. And then we had some people
who edited some reels not in the edits
app. They edited them somewhere else and
they posted them as reels and they went
viral. And so we decided to look at the
numbers and say, well, what would happen
if we excluded those? What happens if we
exclude the reels, regardless of where
they were edited, that got double the
amount of views that you would average
get that got four times or five times
the number of views that you would get
on average. And even when we excluded
all of those viral reels, the outliers,
so to speak, we still saw that there was
less than a 5% difference in views when
you were using the edits app or when you
were not using the edits app. The only
real noticeable change that we saw in
any of the numbers when we compared any
sort of data set is that people who
consistently used the edits app for 2 3
4 5 six posts, they did see slightly
better performance on each of those
reels. It wasn't significant. It wasn't
like suddenly their views were tripling
just because they hit the third or the
fourth reel made using the edits app,
but there was slight improvement on
average from reel one to two to three to
four and so on. So, what does this lead
me to conclude? I don't think it takes a
rocket scientist or data analysis to say
what I'm about to say, which is edit
wherever you want to edit. If you prefer
editing in Cap Cut, great. If you prefer
editing in edits, great. If you prefer
editing right on Instagram and you're
fine with dealing with the constant
glitches, that's fine, too. Edit
wherever you want to edit. Also,
according to a study that was done by
Hootsweet just last year, there is no
difference in views or performance for
reels that were edited in Cap Cut or
reels that were not edited in Cap Cut.
Again, all of this to say, it does not
matter where you edit your reels. You
are free to make them on whatever
editing app you prefer. That's the first
thing I wanted to say. The second thing
that I want to say is stop chasing
silver bullets. Stop looking for magic
pills and solutions that are going to
make you go viral overnight. Very, very,
very rarely do such strategies and such
hacks actually exist. I can only think
of a handful of actual hacks, actual
things that you could try that allowed
you to get a ton of views and a ton more
than normal, even if your content wasn't
significantly better. I can think of
maybe two or three things over the last
decade. And usually those things last
for a day or maybe a couple weeks before
they get patched and Instagram fixes
their software or they tweak the
algorithm so that those things are not
effective. But what is effective on
Instagram? What are the strategies that
are proven to work? Well, of course,
we've done tons of other build your
tribe episodes about that. So rather
than just rehashing all of that right
now, I'll just link up a few of those in
the show notes below. But what I can
tell you even from this study is this.
The more you put the reps in, the better
you will get. I think that the reason
that people who use the edits app for
four, five, six reels continue to see
better and better results was not that
Instagram's like, "Oh, hey, this person
used edits seven times, so let's make
sure to push their reels out to slightly
more people." I think it was simply that
that person has made seven reels in the
last few weeks since the edits app has
rolled out and so they've been putting
the reps in. They've been practicing,
right? I am an absolute believer that at
the end of the day, quality content is
king. And if you can make the best
quality content, you will get views
regardless of what the algorithm thinks.
You will reach the people you want to
reach. But of course, the question
becomes, how do we make highquality
content? Yes, there are tips. Yes, there
are strategies. Yes, that is the whole
point of build your tribe is to give you
the tips and strategies to make higher
quality content. But ultimately, it is
quantity that breeds quality. It is
practice that leads to progress. It is
putting the reps in and posting time and
time again. Not just to post, not just
to throw spaghetti at the wall, but to
learn from each and every single post to
get 1% better, to improve one aspect,
one element of each post. That is how
you improve the quality of your reels.
And that ultimately is how you get more
views on your reels. Thank you so much
for listening today. And if you want
more factual, evidence-based strategies
for growing on social media, don't
forget to hit that subscribe button
because every single Thursday I release
a new episode of this podcast to give
you the updates that you need to know to
actually see results on social. Thank
you so much for being here and as always
happy networking.